So here, because it's so simple,
at least to begin with,
there's not much in it.
It has the draw rect,
which does the drawing,
and then it also has an accessor pair
set up for storing and getting the color,
which it wants to put up.
So we're going to talk
about both of these,
at least briefly.
I'm going to start with the drawing,
even though really the accessors are
where I'm going to spend more time,
believe it or not.
So let's look at this first.
So is there anything
interesting about this?
Well, yeah, a little bit.
So for drawing, what are we doing?
First,
we're setting a color into the context.
The way graphics works on Mac OS X is
that there's a state machine,
which is called the graphics context.
You set attributes like the fill color
or the stroke style or things like that,
kinds of joins, and then you draw,
and the drawing is always
through a suspect to the
current state of the machine.
So the first line is setting
a color into the machine,
and then the second line is
using it to fill a rectangle.
And what's interesting,
maybe the first thing is that, yes,
it's a rect fill.
That part makes sense.
But what's this compositing operation,
composite source over?
Well, let's talk about that briefly.
So compositing operations are
ways of combining drawing.
So we talk about there being
a destination and a source
whenever we're doing new drawing.
And what that refers to is that
the source is whatever is new,
the new pixels, and the destination is
what was already there.
And compositing operations tell
you about how to combine them,
what formula to use.
So the normal mode is called
composite source over,
and it's just exactly what you expect.
It just looks like draw it,
and it just looks completely normal.
And that's going to be the main
theme for this little tip is just
normal is composite source over.
That's what it means.
Some of the more
abnormal modes like this,
this is the kind of thing you
see if you use something else.
This is what you see if
you see destination atop.
Fairly obvious that while
you can come up with cases,
certainly, and interesting operations
where you can make cases,
you can also make cases where
you can make a destination.
So this is what you see if
you see destination atop.
Okay.
So this is what you see if
you see destination atop.
good use of these extra modes,
for the most part,
that's not what you want.
For the most part,
you always want to be using
composite source over.
So if you ever see a compositing
operation argument and you
don't know what to pass,
you almost certainly
want to pass source over.
Okay, so take it to heart.
And one of the reasons I want to
bring this up is because a somewhat
attractive method that you might
want to use instead of NSRectFill
using operation is NSRectFill.
It looks simpler, right?
Well, it is, I suppose,
but it very likely doesn't do what
you want because it actually is the
same as NSRectFill using operation,
but it passes copy mode.
And copy mode is not source over.
It's not normal.
What does it do?
Well, copy mode completely replaces
what was already in the context,
in the destination,
with the new source pixels,
including the opacity information.
So what you see is something like this.
Wherever your new drawing is transparent,
the context actually becomes
transparent rather than just
showing through what was there.
[Transcript missing]
So let's just a quick, quick,
quick rundown of what key value
observing is for people who
may not have used it too much.
So it's a way of getting
property change notifications.
So when you hook up a controller layer,
say, and you say,
I'd like to observe the color
property of some model object,
you can receive a notification
every time it changes,
like here.
And then when you receive
this notification,
you can just do whatever you want.
So for example,
you might update some view.
And then after that happens,
control returns back to the caller.
It's all synchronous.
That's something that some
people don't always realize.
It's not like this happens later.
All of the changes by observers are
made before the method even returns.
Okay, but now we want to actually
use this to fix our problem.
So what is it that we want to do?
Well,
we're going to keep a list of those keys,
those properties, which when they change,
we want to update our display.
[Transcript missing]
So the method where you receive those
notifications that I was mentioning
whenever a key value pair changes
is observed value for key path.
And what you want to do,
often the implementation of
this method is not quite right
the way people look at it.
In particular,
you see how the first line here,
what I'm doing is I'm checking if
the context is one I recognize.
If the context is color
view needs display context,
then I'm going ahead and
invalidating the display.
Otherwise, I'm calling super.
This is important,
and this is something that
people don't always get right,
that the KVO context is
a non-optional argument.
It's the only way you can distinguish
your observation from observations
that somebody else is doing,
which is unusual in Cocoa.
Usually a context is optional,
and it's usually just something you
pass in and you receive back later that
you can do whatever you want with it.
But here, the issue is that if NSObject,
say,
was observing some particular key path,
and it happened to be the same
key path you were observing,
you need to not block those observations.
You need to make sure that all
of your superclasses are also
getting a hold of the notifications
they expect to be receiving,
or else you might break the system.
And the way that you
need to do that is this.
This is the way to do it,
is you check the context argument.
So I suggest you pass that in.
Okay.
So something that makes this a little
bit easier is that Xcode these days,
I think just in 3.1,
if you type the beginning of the...
the word observe out in the gutter
right where you would want to implement
the observe value for key path method,
well, it'll actually complete it,
and it'll give you the right form.
And then if you fill it in,
then you'll be good.
So that's nice.
And...
So that's what our observe value
for keypath method looks like.
What we do when we notify,
we also need to actually
set up the observances.
That's what this would look like.
Let's just go straight down
the page and look at it.
First is just a little
aside a little bit.
So what is this pound pragma mark line?
This is a way of just organizing
your source code and Xcode.
What it does is that
in the function pop-up,
you'll see a bold separator,
which is nice.
It really helps you to
see what's going on.
It really helps when you've just got it,
especially in large classes where
you've got a lot of methods.
Okay, but moving on.
Okay,
so now we have this context argument
that I was talking about before.
We just made it a static NSString global.
There's just a single one of it,
and it has a unique name.
It has something, well,
unique in that it's unlikely
anybody else in the system would
try to use the same context for
anything because we called it,
we prefixed it with our class name.
So we wrote it color view
needs display context.
Seems reasonable.
Okay, then when it comes time to actually
set up the start of the system,
we would call self at observer
key path with the property and the
context is the needs display context.
And you see here I'm calling a method
to return the list of properties,
which I want to invalidate display,
which I've called more or less key
paths for values affecting display.
However, I gave it a prefix.
Why did I give it a prefix?
Well, it's too generic.
The problem is that this is
a sufficiently useful method,
I think, that, for example,
AppKit might actually end up
supplying it for you someday,
possibly.
So, and it would be bad if you defined a
method that did something like this,
and we defined a method that
did something like this,
but they actually had
slightly different semantics.
Or if we wanted you to call
super or something like that,
it could end up breaking
your application.
So the suggestion is when
you're implementing something
that's really generic,
that's not specific to your application,
that you try to do some
prefixing or something to
keep it out of our namespace.
Or to keep us from, excuse me,
I shouldn't call it our namespace.
To keep it from conflicting.
So a good example of that is,
when the setHidden method was added,
I don't remember if it
was either 10.3 or 10.4,
that really caused a lot of trouble,
because it turned out a lot of people had
tried to define setHidden on its view,
which did something,
wasn't quite the same thing as ours.
So there was some hacking
actually necessary to make sure
that we didn't break people.
Okay, I don't want to get
too caught up on that.
So that's why we do our setup.
We also need to do teardown, of course.
That's pretty straightforward.
You just remove the observer,
which is self in this case.
Okay, that's great.
However,
we haven't actually called them anywhere.
Those were just convenience
methods I set up.
Where might we want to call them?
Well, we can call them in init.
That's a possibility.
So because this is a view class,
I'm overriding init with frame,
and I'm overriding init
with coder to do the setup.
So that whenever my properties change
for the entire lifetime of the object,
the setNeedsDisplay call will happen.
So why particularly these two methods?
Why did I do it in init with
coder and init with frame?
Why didn't I override init, for example?
Well,
these are the designated initializers.
And this is something that
people sort of know about,
but don't seem to quite
have the right idea on.
So with designated initializers,
first of all, a class has not one
designated initializer,
but any number of
designated initializers.
And the contract that they adhere to is
that every object that gets initialized
is going to go through one and only
one of the designated initializers
at each level of the class hierarchy.
Okay?
Which means that if you want to
To do initialization,
you need to override all of
the designated initializers
of your superclass.
Here's an issue that people
run into and why this fixes it.
Interface builder will create objects
in a variety of different ways.
Under some circumstances it
will use a NIT with frame.
will use a NIT with coder.
Under some circumstances
it will use a NIT.
These situations are actually documented
and you can learn them if you want.
You know, I mean, I suppose it's always
good to know things.
But if you override all of
your designated initializers,
it doesn't matter how the object
was created because it's always
going to go through one of them.
That's the contract.
So I suggest you do that.
And this pops up on the
mailing list sometimes.
Okay.
We also need to...
This is a little bit of a difference
from the NS Notification Center.
You may know that if you're using
NS Notification Center notifications,
you do not need to unregister
yourself and finalize.
It will sort of happen anyway.
That's not true with KVO.
You need to do it explicitly.
Okay, but then there's something
else I want to do here,
which is that you may have heard
that it's not really a good
idea to have a lot of code in
DLAC or especially in finalize.
And that's true for a variety of reasons.
But let me get to those in a minute.
For now, I want to say from almost from
a performance point of view,
I mean,
display doesn't really make a lot of
sense unless you're actually in a window.
So instead of doing it with DLAC,
something we can do is we can implement
the method viewWillMoveToWindow,
which is a method of NS View.
It's very useful.
And we can just say, well,
we -- so we're being told
that we're moving to a window.
We're going into a window that
exists if the new window is non-nil.
We're already in a window
if when we call self-window,
we get something non-nil.
And we only need observations
when we're in a window.
So if we're currently not in a
window and we're going into one,
then we need to set up the observation.
And if we're coming out of a window,
we need to tear it down.
And this is nice because, yes,
we do get to remove the Niala code.
But it's also, like I said,
good because we're not going
to have to do it again.
And we're going to be
able to do it again.
Because DLAC is -- DLAC and
especially Finalize are --
[Transcript missing]
So up at the top,
we have the part of the code that
I was claiming that we care about.
So the draw rect,
the key paths for values
affecting display,
and then the synthesize attribute.
Then we have some stuff that I'm
skipping because I'm going to
come back and do that in a minute.
And then we have the infrastructure part.
So we have the declaration
of the new context.
We have the part where we
set up the auto display.
So actually, let's just count them first.
So it's just four methods,
and all of them are pretty short.
None of them are more
than six lines of code.
And they're really only six lines because
the spacing on the screen is so funny.
So we set up the observation.
We tear down the observation
with removeObserver,
and then when the view's
moving to the window,
we want to do the setup sometimes,
tear down sometimes,
and then we have to actually
implement the method that gets
called when the values change,
check the context,
and actually invalidate the display.
Okay, so that's that.
And that should work,
so I'm going to run it.
Gorgeous, eh?
Woo.
Okay.
We didn't save a whole lot here, right?
Because, I mean,
we didn't have to implement an accessor.
Instead, we implemented four methods.
That doesn't seem like a huge win.
But the win... The nice thing
is that they're totally generic.
So now if we want to change things,
we can do that pretty quickly.
So I'm just going to comment this out.
Let's say we wanted to draw a
gradient in the window instead,
okay?
So we would need to,
instead of having just a single color,
we want to have a top
color for the gradient,
a bottom color for the gradient.
Let's put a title in
the middle of the thing,
too.
Then I don't want that attribute.
Excuse me.
I want these three instead.
I'm going to comment out this
chunk of code and instead I'm going
to say okay I want to synthesize
those three new properties.
Excuse me, synthesize.
And I want to say that whenever
any of them changes I would like
my display to be invalidated.
So there they are just written in a list.
And then I want to
actually draw my drawing,
write my drawing code.
And this is longer but the
whole point of this is that,
I mean this is what the
view is supposed to do.
This is the part that I hope you're
somewhat interested to actually write
because this is what you're doing.
I mean we're getting the
bounding rectangle for the view.
We're creating a gradient using
the top color and the bottom color.
[Transcript missing]
And then we're going to center
it more or less in the view,
but because the centering can
cause it to be non pixel aligned,
we're going to use this
method centerScanRect,
which will align the box that you've
just made to the two pixels in the view.
And this is particularly interesting
because it works well at high resolution.
If you're aware that we're
trying to get things working for
resolution independence so that
we can run our displays at higher
scale factors so things look just
take more pixels on the screen.
So if you're used to
just rounding and saying,
if you want to make things integral
and make them look snapped in
the right place on the screen,
that's not going to
work right at high DPI,
but centerScanRect will.
So and it's actually not
really necessary for text.
In fact,
it's probably better if you don't do it,
but I'm just demonstrating.
So that's that.
So we can do all that.
We run it.
And again,
now we find that we have a gradient.
The top and the bottom
color can be changed.
So we can do all that.
We run it.
And again,
now we find that we have a gradient.
The top and the bottom
color can be changed.
[Transcript missing]
Last, I did just want to point out
center-scan-rect because I don't
think it's very well known.
It's been in the operating
system since 10.0,
but nobody's had a reason
to use it until recently.
So,
you might want to take a look at that.
Okay, that is most of what
I have to say about that,
but I would like to take a
little moment here to talk about
some garbage collection issues.
So, in particular,
when we were using that KVO context,
the context is typed void star,
all right?
And what we passed in
was not a void star,
but it was a string.
It was a static string.
So,
this is going to have some repercussions
because our garbage collector does
not scan through all of memory and
keep every single object alive.
That would be a conservative collector.
What ours does is that it
knows how things are laid out,
and it only looks for possible
objects within variables that
are typed to be object type.
So, when you have this void star,
if you're passing something in there,
our system is not going to know that
that's an object if it is an object,
and we're not going to keep it alive,
which makes it unsafe to pass
objects there unless you take extra
care to make sure that it is safe.
So, what are the various different
ways you can make it safe?
Well, you can use something that you're
pretty sure is not going to go away.
So,
in the case of the static and a string,
there are two reasons why
it's not going to go away.
First of all,
it's stored in a static global variable.
That's enough.
Another reason it's not going to go
away is because it's not going to be
stored in a static global variable.
The other reason it's not going to go
away is because it's just constant.
I mean, at quoted strings,
unless you're doing something
fancy with bundle unloading,
never go away.
One thing people sometimes
try to do is they want to pass
self-class as the context.
I suggest you not do that.
That is too generic.
It's important when you choose
the string to choose something
that nobody else might try to
use as an observation context.
And your class maybe doesn't
satisfy that property.
And also, even if you do self-class,
that's not getting your class,
that's getting whatever
class is currently active.
I mean, it might be a subclass,
basically,
if somebody has subclassed your code.
So that's not very useful.
Another thing you can do,
and this is the part that
I really want to talk about,
is you can CF retain it.
Because under garbage collection,
what CF retain means is it means, hey,
garbage collector,
something outside of the scope
of the things that you know
about is using this object.
So you cannot destroy it.
It's a hard retain.
What I want to say about this is that
it is harder to get right than it looks.
First of all,
something which you may or may not
realize is that when you're not
running with garbage collection,
cf.retain, which is the
core_foundation.retain function,
is absolutely interchangeable with
the retain message in foundation.
To the point where you
can take any cf object,
say a ct font-raft,
a core text font descriptor,
which is not bridged to
any Objective-C type,
you can auto-release that if it's useful.
Because it will eventually end up
sending out the release message,
and the release message is equivalent
to the cf.release function.
So they're completely the same
thing when you're not running
with garbage collection.
However, when you are running
with garbage collection,
like I said, they are different.
You can't mix them.
You need to keep them
balanced independently.
And it has subtleties.
So suppose you have something like this.
Suppose you have a little object network
of objects referencing each other.
Well, under garbage collection,
this is fine.
If nobody else is referencing
the little network,
then it will be seen to be unreachable,
and all of the objects will
eventually be destroyed.
Now,
suppose that you replace one of those
references that you think of as being,
you know, I'm using this thing,
with a cf.retain.
Well, suddenly you have a problem.
This is not going to work.
This section of the
graph is going to leak.
And a good way to think of
this is that the cf.retain,
it's not directed.
The system does not know
that it's this thing,
cf.retaining, this other object.
It's just this global reference
that says keep it alive.
And so you're in this kind of
situation where the collector is
not going to be able to tell that
the object needs to be destroyed.
And in particular,
cf.release and finalize,
that's when it's going to get
you into this kind of problem.
Because finalize is never going
to run because the collector
never collects your object.
So when is it okay?
It's not like you can't use it.
It's okay if you're pretty sure
the cf.release is going to happen.
So if the cf.release is not in finalize.
So, for example,
if you have a block of code and
at the top you cf.retain it,
some object, then you pass the object off
somewhere in code that you feel
like is not necessarily going
to keep it alive or whatever,
I don't know.
And then the bottom of the
method you cf.release it,
that's fine because you're sure
that cf.release is going to run.
It's also okay if you can be sure
that the cf.release is going to run.
sure that there aren't going
to be any cycles created,
meaning that if the object that
you're CF retaining does not
have any references back up into
arbitrary parts of your object graph.
If it does,
you're really asking for trouble.
And leaks in garbage collection
are kind of bad because they tend
to leak really large parts of the
application graph because almost
everything is a strong reference.
So it is going to cause leaks if you
have your CF retained and finalized.
And if the CF retained object is
too complicated to understand,
if you don't know what it is,
if people are passing arbitrary objects,
you really don't want to be CF retaining
them and CF releasing them and finalize.
Okay.
Let's go back and just,
that's all I have to say
about garbage collection,
but let's crystallize what we said.
So first of all, a static and a string
that you use a fairly,
you know,
you use something that's specific to
your situation makes a good KVO context.
I suggest you do that.
Secondly, CF retain.
[Transcript missing]
happens in a more determined order.
If you have some tree of objects
that are being deallocated,
you can be sure that the root of the tree
will be deallocated before the leaves
if it's releasing the leaves as it goes.
With garbage detection, that's not true.
The whole tree is found to be on
reference at the same time and they'll
get finalized in some arbitrary order.
And you shouldn't be trying to
message those other objects that
are being finalized at that point.
And particularly,
if you accidentally store one and two,
you'll start getting resurrection errors.
If you see in your code that things are
complaining about being resurrected,
it's very likely because you've got code
and finalized that's too complicated.
Okay, that's enough.
So we talked about key value
observing with this color property.
Now I'd actually like to go back
and talk about making it bindable.
Okay, so what do I mean by this?
So what's bindings again?
Bindings is a way of establishing a
two-directional connection between say,
a view and a model, okay?
And what you do is you say,
I'd like to bind some property
of the view to the model.
And what it does is yes, same as before,
the view is going to observe the model.
And whenever the model changes,
the view is going to get updated.
But instead of receiving a
notification of the update,
that's, it's true,
it does receive a notification.
But do you think of bindings
as being from the outside?
It actually does something
with the notification.
In this case, it would update its view,
okay?
So you see we're almost there, right?
But then you also think of bindings
as being a two-way connection.
So that if the user comes along
and changes the color in the view,
which in our code is
not actually possible,
because we haven't
implemented anything for that,
then it gets pushed down, oh, excuse me,
The two-directional
connection that uses KVO.
In our case,
it's fairly clear that it would be nice
if this color property were bindable.
What's going to be involved
in implementing a custom
binding for this object?
It turns out that nothing is involved.
This is already bindable.
We've already written all
the code we have to write.
So that's worth noting because
custom bindings are sometimes
thought of as being difficult.
And there are cases
where they're difficult,
but there are also
cases where they aren't.
And during this talk,
I'm going to discuss the easy case,
and I'm also going to discuss
one step up from the easy case.
And show that really writing custom
bindings is not such a big deal.
But first, so let's just see how you
end up using the binding.
Okay, well this is what we might do.
We might take our color view,
we'd bind the color binding,
that's what we define,
to the user defaults controller.
And then we're going to use the key path,
which is the key path that's specific
to the way user defaults works.
And then we have a transformer,
keyed on our archive from data
transformer name that we're passing
as an option for the binding.
What does that mean?
Well,
the only object you can store in defaults
are of six different P list types,
I think.
So you can store a number, array,
dictionary, date, and data.
And that's it, NSData.
But, and a color is not any of those,
so you cannot directly store a
color in the preferences database.
However, it's fairly easy to transform a
color to a data using the fact that
it conforms to the coding protocol.
So if you put it through
a keyed archiver,
what this code is doing is it
says every time you need to
update the model from the view,
first run it through the
keyed archiver to make data,
and every time you're
pulling data out of defaults,
run it through the keyed unarchiver
to produce the actual color.
Okay, great.
Oh, right,
so I was saying that some people
think of implementing custom
bindings as being difficult.
Well, the converse of that is that some
people before they looked at it
very much also think of custom
bindings as being extremely easy.
Because they think it works like this.
They think that you should make
your view property observable,
you should make your
model property observable,
and you're done.
And that's not true.
So the thing to understand is that
bindings are actually asymmetric.
The view observes the model, that's true,
and whenever the model changes,
the view gets this notification
and it updates appropriately.
It gets observed value for keypath.
But the other direction,
that's not how it works.
When the view needs to update the model,
it just does it.
It directly messages.
I haven't used an observing line here in
the direction from the view to the model.
I've used a hard line to indicate
that it just has this thing,
it just uses it directly.
So what this means, however,
is that the easy case,
the reason why we fell into this before,
is that we didn't have any need
to update the model from the view.
Data was never flowing in that direction.
It was always flowing in the
direction from the model to the view,
which meant the KVO stuff
was just working.
And on top of that,
it was working because of NSObject's
implementation of the bind value.
Which I'm going to go through.
So NSObject implements bind.
What it does is that in the bind method,
it starts observing the model.
Okay, fine.
And it passes its own context.
No, we're going to keep that
in the back of your head.
Okay.
Then it implements
observed value for keypath.
And when it gets the
context that it expects,
it dispatches another message to itself,
which is set value for key with the
value that got pushed up from the model.
Okay.
And what does it use as the keypath?
It uses the binding.
So that means that when under
under certain conditions,
that means that's enough.
Whenever the data is always flowing
from the model to the view and you've
made a binding whose name exactly
matches a property in your view,
then you're done.
Okay, and I did want to point out,
of course,
this means NSObject really is doing
some observation of almost anything.
And if you don't check your contexts in
the observed value for keypath method,
then you're going to block it
and it's going to stop working.
So be sure to call super and
observe value for keypath if
you don't recognize the context.
Then the harder case is when
you do sometimes need to update
the model using the view.
We can handle that too.
Here's our plan for doing that.
First of all, we have to handle both
directions of data flow.
But let's let NSObject handle the
data flow whenever it's coming
from the model to the view.
What that means is that we're
either not going to override bind
or we're going to call super.
[Transcript missing]
The way this works,
sometimes you think of bindings
as aliasing two properties.
You have some property in the
view and you've got a property
in the model and you think the
bindings makes them the same.
That's not really true.
It's more like a default
implementation of a delegate.
And if you think about the way delegates
work or target action or any of that,
it's not that they're in sync.
It's that sometimes the view says,
you know,
this is a good time to update the model.
Or with the text system,
it's not like you get every single
character every time somebody types or
and you don't get because you wouldn't
want it because you only want the
text when the user is actually done.
Bindings works the same way.
It keeps its own copy and it just
updates the model at appropriate times.
It's just exactly like a delegate.
Okay, that said, so let's,
as an example for a custom binding,
let's use Sketch.
And could I have the demo machine,
please?
Thank you.
Okay,
so Sketch is an application that is,
as an example,
it ships in developer/applications
whenever you've installed
the developer tools.
And it is a little drawing program.
So I'm going to show it off to start.
So you can make circles,
you can make big rectangles,
you can color them, salmon, evidently.
But then what I want to talk about,
that might be a bug or something,
I don't know.
What I wanted to mention is that
it has a rather nice class in it,
which I'm going to talk about,
which is this scroll view here, okay?
You see the pop-up down in the corner,
it has a zoom property.
So you can zoom in on the thing.
And it uses bindings to
do the zoom property.
And it falls into the easy case,
actually, because the scroll view,
there's no way to update the
zoom from the scroll view itself.
There's just also this pop-up button,
which can control it.
But the pop-up button pushes
data down to the model.
The model,
and then the data pops back up into the
view and actually updates the scroll.
Okay, that's great.
That's how that already works.
I was saying that's the easy case.
Why, however,
am I saying that we're going
to do the hard case in Sketch?
Well, something that might be nice
with this is that in 10.6,
we have support for gesture events.
In Mac OS X,
the same as you have on the phone.
So if you have a new model
MacBook Pro or MacBook Air,
such as the one that I'm using right now,
then if you make a pinch
gesture on your trackpad,
then you can magnify or back away
from whatever you're looking at.
So it would be really nice if
our scroll view had that ability.
But when we add that ability,
it's going to knock us into the
hard case because we're going
to have to start having to,
we're going to need to be able to push
data from the view into the model.
So that's what we're going to do.
First, let's just take a look at
what the code looks like for
now for the existing binding.
[Transcript missing]
What it's doing here
is it's grabbing the,
it's taking the,
say somebody tries to bind this property,
which is a scroll view zoom factor, okay?
Then it binds the pop-up button,
and then it also calls super.
So if I could switch back
to the slides for a minute,
I'd like to diagram what's going on.
Thank you.
Okay, so here's what happens.
So when somebody comes along and says,
scroll view,
please bind your factor to the model.
The scroll view has this internal
pop-up instance variable,
basically, that's opaque.
The model doesn't know about it.
Okay, so you would think that that
means that the scroll view,
it does need to sometimes push data
down to the model because the user
can manipulate the pop-up button.
But what it does is that rather
than directly messaging its pop-up,
when somebody asks it to bind,
it first tells its internal pop-up
variable to bind to the model,
and then it goes ahead and calls super,
which means it's taking advantage of
the NS object level implementation
of bind in addition to having
bound the pop-up button so that
whenever the model changes,
both the pop-up and the scroll
view are going to update.
Ken Ferrry This is a little bit unusual.
It actually means that the
scroll view is going to update.
So the scroll view is bindings only.
You can't directly tell the scroll
view to change its zoom factor because
it would not update its pop-up.
[Transcript missing]
Okay, great.
So that's that.
So like I said,
what this method does is it
really just creates the pop-up
button if it isn't already there.
It binds the pop-up button,
and then it just calls
super unconditionally.
And that's how that works.
Okay, great.
So now let's go ahead and actually
implement our gesture support.
So I have my pop-up that I did
with PagmaMark for event handling.
The reason there wasn't anything
there is because it was commented out.
So let's go ahead and uncomment it now.
What happens is that when the user
makes a pinch gesture or something
that's supposed to be able to change
something like a zooming on your view,
and its application and its window
will dispatch this method to you,
which is magnify with event.
It's very easy to use.
And what you can do is you can pull
the magnification out of the event,
which is a change in percent.
So if you get something like
0.25 as the magnification,
that means... Increase
your zoom factor by 0.25.
So if you're currently
at 100% and you get that,
then you want to go up to 125%. If you
get minus 0.25 and you're at 100%,
you want to go down to 75%. This,
we luck out,
and it's exactly how Sketch models
it in the first place.
There's a factor instance variable,
which is the zoom, which is the scaling.
And what we want to do with the
magnification is we just want to add it.
So if you're at 1,
it goes up to 1.25 or down to 0.75.
However... We do have to cap it because
the app kit is not smart enough to know,
hey,
this is already zoomed in all the way.
You can't go any further.
I mean,
it might start sending you minus 0.25
events when you're already down to 0.
So I have a method up here, which just...
caps the scaling to clamps
it to some reasonable values.
So it has both a min and a max,
and it makes sure that
we don't exceed them.
Okay, so then we have our new factor,
and then we need to set it.
Now,
because of the way the scroll view works,
like I said,
because it's actually bindings only,
what we can do is we can just
update our model and let those
changes bounce back into both the
scroll view and the pop-up button.
And that's what I'm going
to do in this method.
Set value for binding,
which I just made up myself,
and I probably should have given a
prefix because that's too generic.
So don't do that.
Okay, so how does it work?
So you grab the binding
info for this binding,
whatever it is.
Okay, if it's not nil,
that means you're bound.
If it's nil,
something weird has happened,
and we just want to ignore that.
Actually, I guess it might not be weird.
It might just mean you're not bound.
We'll pull out the observer,
and we'll just say, okay,
you asked for the observed
object using this documented key.
You asked the binding info for,
this is just a dictionary.
You ask it for its observed object.
Okay, great.
You ask it for the observed key path.
Fine.
All right,
and then we just need to update it.
So we will say observed
object set value for key path.
That's going to update the model,
and that's all it takes.
And then that will, because of the
KVO observation we're doing,
will always bounce back into both our
scroll view and the pop-up button.
So let's just see it.
We're actually done.
So if I make this guy,
and I make it some nice color,
and you'll have to take my word for
it that I'm actually going to start
using the fancy gesture events,
but there they are.
So it works really nicely.
Okay.
And that's it.
So, yeah.
Pretty easy.
I hope that that made sense.
I don't know.
Okay, the one thing that I did want
to mention is that there are a
number of options that people
use when they're doing binding.
I, in fact, already showed one.
I showed using the value
transformer name option to say what
transformations we want it done.
And what I've just,
when you're pushing things
from the view to the model.
And I haven't done that.
So I haven't accommodated
any of those options.
And the reason I've done that,
I haven't done it,
is because it's too hard.
Because there are a lot of options.
There's a value transformer.
There's a value transformer name.
There's any number of things.
You have to handle them all individually.
And there's no way to
expand it in the future.
So really what I'm saying is that, again,
this is a case where
just look at what you,
you don't need to handle everything
completely generically all the time.
Just do what your code needs to do.
And because we don't need any fancy
value transformers at the moment,
I'm just not doing them.
And I'll do them as necessary.
And hopefully maybe AppKit can try to,
in the future,
do something that is sufficiently
generic that would be able to
handle all the options for you.
But it's not there yet.
So this is probably what you ought to do.
Could I have the slides back, please?
[Transcript missing]